CONTENTS Third Year Project Assessment
Third Year Project Assessment
1 Proportions 2 Summary of Assessments 3 Report 3.1 3.2 3.3 3.4 3.5 Contents
2
2
3
Abstract and Introduction (15%) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 4
Background and Theory (25%) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 5
Technical Quality, Methodology and Evaluation (35%) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 6
Summary and Conclusions (15%) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 7
Presentation, Structure and Language (10%) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 8
4 Screencast 9
4.1 4.2 4.3 4.4 Demonstrates the Achievements (25%) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 10
Use of the Medium (25%) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 11
Audience (25%) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 12
Structure and Flow (25%) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 13
5 Achievements 14
5.1 5.2 5.3 Complexity (33%) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 15
Scale (33%) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 16
Achievement (34%) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 17
26 January 2025 Page 1 of 17
2 SUMMARY OF ASSESSMENTS Third Year Project Assessment
1 Proportions
Aspect Report Achievements Screencast Proportion (%)
55
30
15
Students will also take part in a Q&A session with the second marker only. This will give the student the
opportunity to expand on their achievements on the project.
2 Summary of Assessments
Twelve marking criteria are proposed:
Report Abstract and Introduction
Background and Theory
Technical Quality, Methodology and Evaluation
Summary and Conclusions
Presentation, Structure and Language
Screencast Demonstrates the Achievements
Use of the Medium
Audience
Structure and Flow
Achievements Complexity
Scale
Achievement
26 January 2025 Page 2 of 17
3 REPORT Third Year Project Assessment
3 Report
Reports are expected to be between 10,000 and 15,000 words long. Submissions significantly outside these
guidelines will be penalised (see the “Presentation, structure and language” criteria).
For a small number of projects the given word limit may not be appropriate, in particular if the report is the
only deliverable, or there is significant theoretical content. A student intending to submit a report longer than
15,000 words must have permission from their supervisor prior to submission to avoid this penalty.
Supervisors should get the students to summarise their work concisely – the above is not a get-out clause for
students to avoid doing that work. It should be justified in terms of the nature of the project, rather than ‘my
student has done a lot of good work and they should be allowed to go on about it’.
The assessment criteria attempt to accommodate different types of project (research, software development,
teaching, etc.). For this reason, not all of the points mentioned will apply to a particular project. This will be
taken into account in the marking.
References, appendices and figure/table captions are not included in the word count.
No tool is specified to produce the report (for example, L A T EXor Microsoft Word), but the report’s appearance
will be assessed under the “Presentation, structure and language” criteria. If using L A T EX, consider using your
university log-on for Overleaf (https://www.overleaf.com/). This allows you to give your supervisor access
to your document to provide help.
The report should be submitted in PDF format only.
IMPORTANT Only the report itself is assessed in these criteria. The actual produced artefacts or the
substance of a research project are assessed under Achievements.
Guidance for markers on multi-item assessments (for example, ‘Abstract and Introduction’): The scores
for each item in an assessment can be averaged. For example, you may think that the abstract deserves a mark
of 40% and the introduction 60%; consequently, the average of 50% can be given.
26 January 2025 Page 3 of 17
3 REPORT Third Year Project Assessment
3.1 Abstract and Introduction (15%)
The abstract is expected to provide a precise and concise summary of the project including key results and/or
achievements.
The introduction should set the scene and introduce the subject area of the work. This section should include a
description of and motivation for the project. Aims and objectives, and success criteria should be given. A brief
description of the evaluation strategy should be included. The structure of the report is normally described.
The introduction will not contain any background research – its purpose is to introduce the project to the
reader.
Key assessment points:
• Demonstration of understanding the project
• Ability to explain ideas
• Appropriate level of technical detail
• Aims and objectives are stated
• Abstract summarises project and states key outcomes
• Summary of evaluation strategy
Failing: 00 – 20 – 39
There is no abstract. The introduction mentions
that a project has been carried out, but is not very
informative.
Poor: 40 – 45 – 49
The abstract indicates a project has been carried
out. The introduction explains some of the pro-
ject’s aims.
Below Expectations: 50 – 55 – 59
The abstract indicates some achievements of the
project and mentions a context. The introduction
explains the project and its aims.
Expected: 60 – 65 – 69
The abstract gives a good overview of the project’s
achievements and describes the setting. The intro-
duction explains the aims of the project within a
wider context and indicates how the project might
be evaluated.
Above Expectations: 70 – 75 – 79
The abstract gives a very good overview of the pro-
ject’s main achievements and explains the setting.
The introduction sets the scene for the project and
its aims and explains these very well and points at
an evaluation strategy.
Excellent: 80 – 85 – 89
The abstract gives a thorough overview covering
most of the project’s achievements and explains
its setting very well. The introduction explains the
setting of the project, supported by suitable liter-
ature, derives the aims from there, and explains
how an evaluation strategy was chosen and why.
Outstanding: 90 – 95 – 100
The abstract gives a precise and comprehens-
ive overview of the project’s achievements in its
proper context. The introduction gives a compre-
hensive and precise account of the project’s set-
ting firmly based on peer-reviewed literature and
derives an evaluation strategy derived from such
literature.
26 January 2025 Page 4 of 17
3 REPORT Third Year Project Assessment
3.2 Background and Theory (25%)
This should include a detailed description and should demonstrate an understanding of the topic/problems,
and an awareness of the solutions to the technical/scientific challenges. Suitable background material and
appropriate good quality references should be given that put the work of the project in context. In the main,
the references should come from peer-reviewed publications.
Any theory (or other detail) that is presented should be relevant, should demonstrate an understanding of
the topic, and the material provided here (and in any descriptions of the design) should allow the work to be
reproduced by a peer. Any background that is given should be relevant to the project and not be just ‘padding’.
Key assessment points:
• Awareness of the subject area
• Understanding of the subject area
• Definitions and concepts are described
• Use of peer-reviewed references
Failing: 00 – 20 – 39
The background of the project is barely men-
tioned.
Poor: 40 – 45 – 49
There is very little indicating the project’s setting.
A weak understanding of the subject area is appar-
ent.
Below Expectations: 50 – 55 – 59
An attempt is made to describe the setting of the
project in some detail. A limited understanding of
the subject area is demonstrated.
Expected: 60 – 65 – 69
There is a description of the setting of the project
based on the literature without major omissions.
The content and relevance of the included literat-
ure is mostly understood.
Above Expectations: 70 – 75 – 79
The setting of the project is described based on the
scientific literature in a balanced and comprehens-
ive way. The content and relevance of the included
literature is understood.
Excellent: 80 – 85 – 89
The setting of the project is described, based in
the majority on peer-reviewed literature with an
appropriate level of detail covering all relevant de-
velopments. The content and relevance of the in-
cluded literature is very well understood.
Outstanding: 90 – 95 – 100
There is a precise and exhaustive description of the
project’s setting firmly based on peer-reviewed lit-
erature. An excellent understanding of the content
and relevance of the included literature is demon-
strated.
26 January 2025 Page 5 of 17
3 REPORT Third Year Project Assessment
3.3 Technical Quality, Methodology and Evaluation (35%)
This assesses the description of the main output from the project (for example, software, research, hardware,
teaching concepts).
Where appropriate, the student has used standard accepted methods of describing designs (e.g. architecture
diagrams, UML, database schemas, algorithms, mathematics, etc.). Alternatively, an attempt has been made
to formalise the description.
This part should cover steps taken to evaluate, test or compare the work to the state of the art. Does the
student demonstrate a level of understanding of the theory, design and technical aspects of the project? Key
decisions should be highlighted and justified.
An evaluation of the work should be included. This includes correctness, usability, fitness for purpose, ranking
with similar work, and so on. It may include manual and automated testing, user surveys, and some sort
of performance metric, for example. Has the student demonstrated a suitable level of critical analysis and
evaluation?
As many different types of project can be performed, not all of the criteria here will apply to every project.
The markers will take into account what is relevant for a particular project type. In particular, a report will
not be marked down for a missing criteria that is not appropriate for the project type.
Key assessment points:
• Understanding of the material
• Technical quality
• Requirements analysis
• Use of design methodologies as appropriate
• Testing as appropriate
• Suitable evaluation of the work
• Critical analysis
Failing: 00 – 20 – 39
There is very little content, and what there is in-
dicates a lack of effort or lack of understanding.
Poor: 40 – 45 – 49
An effort has been made to describe the technical
aspects of the project. However, it may not be
very complete, thorough or clear.
Below Expectations: 50 – 55 – 59
The technical aspects of the project have been de-
scribed using diagrams and so on, where appropri-
ate. However the detail of the testing and evalu-
ation is limited. The student has clearly described
the design of the project but checking its correct-
ness and comparing to other work was a bit of an
afterthought.
Expected: 60 – 65 – 69
The technical aspects have been described well and
a good understanding is demonstrated. Testing
and evaluation is well thought-through and de-
scribed. Additionally, there are few ‘missing’ tests.
There may be some questionable design and test-
ing decisions, but overall, the report could be used
to reproduce the work.
Above Expectations: 70 – 75 – 79
The technical aspects have been described very
well and a very good understanding is demon-
strated. A level of formality has been applied (via
accepted design principles, for example) allowing
for a concise but thorough description.
Testing and evaluation is very well thought-
through and described. The report could be used
to reproduce the work.
Excellent: 80 – 85 – 89
In addition to the previous band:
The designs are very well considered, clear, and
easy to understand. The output has been eval-
uated to a very high level (testing, question-
naires, comparison with similar work). The stu-
dent demonstrates a very thorough understanding
of the technical details of their work and has been
able to explain this very clearly so that the reader
can also understand it.
Outstanding: 90 – 95 – 100
In addition to the previous band:
There is very little to fault. The writing demon-
strates an extremely thorough understanding of
the project work and the field in which it sits.
Explanations of the technical details, work of the
project and evaluation are exceptional.
26 January 2025 Page 6 of 17
3 REPORT Third Year Project Assessment
3.4 Summary and Conclusions (15%)
This section includes the conclusions and a summary of achievements, reflection, identification of improvements,
and further work. The conclusions presented must be based on the work done in the project. The suggested
further work should be substantial, not simply ‘more of the same’.
Key assessment points:
• Summary of the work
• Discussion of achievements
• Critical reflection
• Ideas for further work
• Alignment with abstract and introduction
Failing: 00 – 20 – 39
Little attempt has been made to summarise the
work and/or draw conclusions.
Poor: 40 – 45 – 49
The section is likely to be brief and not provide
the reader with a clear idea as to what has been
done or achieved. Any suggestions for future work
will be limited in scope.
Below Expectations: 50 – 55 – 59
Some effort has been made to draw the work of the
project together but it is rather superficial. There
is not much in the way of critical reflection. Ideas
for further work are not very ambitious.
Expected: 60 – 65 – 69
The work has been well summarised. There is a
critical analysis of the work and a number of im-
provements that can be made have been given. A
couple of ideas for further work are detailed which
have some ambition but are not too far removed
from the scope of the work.
Above Expectations: 70 – 75 – 79
The work has been very well summarised. There
is a critical analysis of the work in a thorough and
honest way. The ability to see weaknesses is ap-
parent and good solutions to problems are given.
Several ideas for future work are detailed which
are ambitious, relevant and well thought out.
Excellent: 80 – 85 – 89
In addition to the previous band:
A good knowledge of the field has allowed for sev-
eral ideas for future work which can realistically
take the project further.
Outstanding: 90 – 95 – 100
The summary and conclusions are excellent in pre-
cision and coverage. It is clear that the student has
mastered the material and has given a definitive
set of conclusions and a well thought-through plan
for future work to reach definitive conclusions.
26 January 2025 Page 7 of 17
3 REPORT Third Year Project Assessment
3.5 Presentation, Structure and Language (10%)
This assesses the organisation and structure of the report. Is the report laid out in a logical style with appropriate
chapters, sections and subsections? Are the references complete and properly formatted? Are figures, tables
and equations properly numbered and appropriate for the work? Is the report attractive (good mathematics,
images of suitable resolution or scalable graphics, figures of a reasonable size)? Does the report demonstrate a
proper use of the English language, how comprehensible is the prose, how clear are explanations, are there any
spelling and punctuation errors, is the report professionally presented?
The report should be between 10,000 – 15,000 words in length. This does not include the abstract, references
and appendices.
Key assessment points:
• Structure
• Layout and flow
• Formatting of citations and references
• Numbering of chapters, sections, figures, etc.
• Suitable figures and tables
• Grammar, spelling, punctuation
• Report length: 10,000 – 15,000 words, unless supervisor allows exemption
Failing: 00 – 20 – 39
The length guidelines have been ignored (outside
of the range 8,500 – 16,500). The structure is not
logical and/or does not flow well. The writing is
poor with numerous mistakes on most pages.
Poor: 40 – 45 – 49
Any deviation from the length guidelines is minor
(within the range 8,500 – 16,500). All of the expec-
ted elements are present, but the writing shows de-
ficiencies on a larger scale than the occasional typo
or badly worded sentence. Very little attention has
been paid to formatting and attractiveness of the
document.
Below Expectations: 50 – 55 – 59
Any deviation from the length guidelines is very
minor. Structure is adequate with all of the ex-
pected elements present. The writing is basic-
ally sound but errors are noticeable. Formatting
of citations and references are inconsistent, unat-
tractive or make reading difficult. An effort has
been made to provide information in the form of
figures and tables.
Expected: 60 – 65 – 69
The length is within the guidelines. The struc-
ture and presentation of the report is good. The
chapters (sections) are appropriate for the work.
The references are mostly correctly formatted.
The writing might not be perfect but overall is en-
tirely readable. Technical terms and abbreviations
will be mostly defined. The writing is supplemen-
ted by an appropriate amount of figures and tables,
and they are easily interpreted, with reasonable
captions. Figures and tables are mostly referred
to in the text.
Above Expectations: 70 – 75 – 79
In addition to the previous band:
The writing is perfectly readable with at most a
few minor errors. The structure and presentation
of the report is very logical and clear. The ref-
erences are almost always correctly formatted. A
good effort has been made to complement the text
with correct mathematics typesetting, good qual-
ity images and figures, figures of a suitable size,
and so on. Technical terms and abbreviations are
always defined. Figures and tables are always re-
ferred to in the text.
Excellent: 80 – 85 – 89
In addition to the previous band:
The writing is very readable with only a few sen-
tences causing a re-read due to the use of lan-
guage. The references are always correctly format-
ted. A professional ‘eye’ is demonstrated with
regards to mathematics typesetting, figures and
tables. There are not many occasions when the
layout and formatting causes annoyance to the
reader.
Outstanding: 90 – 95 – 100
There is very little to fault. A broad vocabulary
and a thorough understanding of the English lan-
guage is evident. Beautifully presented.
26 January 2025 Page 8 of 17
4 SCREENCAST Third Year Project Assessment
4 Screencast
The screencast is the student’s opportunity to sell their work in an interesting and entertaining way. The
student might imagine that they own a small company and are producing an online sales video to promote
their work/product. It might consist of a recorded Powerpoint-type presentation with a voice-over, but a high-
quality advertising-type production will gain the higher marks in ‘Use of the medium’. However, the viewer
(marker, third-year student) is one that is interested in the technical aspects and achievements of the project.
The screencast might also include a brief demonstration of any produced artefacts (but it should be made clear
whether or not demonstrations are of the student’s own work). The total length of the screencast should be in
the 7 – 9 minute range.
Part of the reason for doing a screencast is because lots of companies now use social media for promoting their
products and services. Being creative and entertaining in your presentations will show yourself in the best light,
be this for selling your company’s products or for selling yourself to a potential employer.
The screencast should have a logical flow and consist of a beginning, a middle and end. It is used to give
someone a quick introduction to your project and what you have achieved. The markers will probably watch
the screencast before reading your report, so it should help them to get an understanding of what your project
is about.
26 January 2025 Page 9 of 17
4 SCREENCAST Third Year Project Assessment
4.1 Demonstrates the Achievements (25%)
The achievements of the project should be described. This may include a brief demonstration of any artefact
or the results of any research.
Key assessment points:
• Gives context for the project
• Demonstration of achievements
• Clarity of explanation
• Supporting theory
Failing: 00 – 20 – 39
No context for the project is given. It is difficult
to tell what has been achieved. No theory is dis-
cussed.
Poor: 40 – 45 – 49
Some context is given. It is clear that a project
has been carried out that does something. A little
background theory is mentioned.
Below Expectations: 50 – 55 – 59
The topic area of the project is clear and one may
see some of what has been done. Theory is touched
on that has relevance to the project.
Expected: 60 – 65 – 69
A context is provided for the project and the main
achievements are described. Some relevant back-
ground theory and how it relates to the project is
discussed.
Above Expectations: 70 – 75 – 79
The main achievements of the project are well set
within a context. The underlying theory is de-
scribed and is clearly explained.
Excellent: 80 – 85 – 89
A comprehensive account of the project’s achieve-
ment within a wider context is given which inter-
weaves well with some of the underlying theory.
Explanation is clear.
Outstanding: 90 – 95 – 100
The scene for the project is set and a precise and
concise account of the achievements is well suppor-
ted by some of the underlying theory. Explanation
is very clear.
26 January 2025 Page 10 of 17
4 SCREENCAST Third Year Project Assessment
4.2 Use of the Medium (25%)
This assesses how well the medium of a video has been used. The screencast may be a set of slides with a
voice-over, a TED-type talk (interspersed with slides), an advertising-type production with multiple scenes, etc.
A clear, interesting video with some originality and creativity can be produced within a reasonable time.
From the student’s point of view, a balance should be made between the time spent producing the screencast
and the number of marks available.
Key assessment points:
• Use of visuals
• Audio quality and sound level
• Editing as appropriate (e.g. removal of long pauses)
• Creativity
• Originality
• Professionalism
Failing: 00 – 20 – 39
There is a video but very little effort has been put
in. Sound is at a such a low level that makes listen-
ing almost impossible.
Poor: 40 – 45 – 49
There is a video with visuals and audio. The stu-
dent has put little effort into designing the content
and appearance of the video. Editing is likely to
be non-existent.
Below Expectations: 50 – 55 – 59
The visuals help the viewer understand the nar-
rative and the audio delivers said narrative. Some
effort has been put into keeping the viewer inter-
ested.
Expected: 60 – 65 – 69
There is a video with suitable visuals and audio
at a consistent level that is always clear. The de-
scription is relevant to the visuals. The content
is interesting and perhaps entertaining. Unneces-
sary pauses have been cut from the recording. Au-
dio levels are good and few verbal mistakes occur.
Slides with a voice-over are acceptable at this level
as long as a good effort has been put into the cre-
ation of the slides.
Above Expectations: 70 – 75 – 79
The visuals have been well chosen to suit the nar-
rative and significantly strengthen the account; the
audio is in addition well-delivered. Creativity has
been demonstrated by providing something more
than slides with a voice-over. Perhaps a mood is
created with subtle background music (if the stu-
dent intends to publish their recording, royalty-
free or public-domain music should be used).
Excellent: 80 – 85 – 89
In addition, the visuals look professional and the
chosen wording reaches a professional standard. A
high-level of creativity and originality is shown and
the recording is equivalent to a good-quality video
on video-sharing website.
Outstanding: 90 – 95 – 100
In addition, the screencast combines the audio and
visuals into a seamless whole. The production is
entertaining and close in quality to what might be
produced professionally.
26 January 2025 Page 11 of 17
4 SCREENCAST Third Year Project Assessment
4.3 Audience (25%)
The audience for the screencast is a typical third-year student. The technical details should be aimed at a
third-year who has not studied the particular field at third-year level. For this reason, jargon and abbreviations
may have to be explained. However, the content should not be over-simplified.
Key assessment points:
• Awareness of audience
• Appropriate level of technical detail
Failing: 00 – 20 – 39
The screencast takes no notice of its audience.
It is pitched at a person much below, or much
above, the typical final-year computer science un-
dergraduate.
Poor: 40 – 45 – 49
An attempt has been made to address an audience.
Below Expectations: 50 – 55 – 59
The screencast is mostly understandable by the
target audience.
Expected: 60 – 65 – 69
The screencast is suitable for the target audience.
It does not shy away from some technical material
and makes some attempt to simplify the material
for those with no knowledge of the field.
Above Expectations: 70 – 75 – 79
In addition, more relevant technical material is
provided and explained at a suitable level for the
audience but could be done more concisely.
Excellent: 80 – 85 – 89
In addition, the overall narrative connects with
material the target audience already knows.
Outstanding: 90 – 95 – 100
In addition, the narrative is utterly compelling for
the target audience.
26 January 2025 Page 12 of 17
4 SCREENCAST Third Year Project Assessment
4.4 Structure and Flow (25%)
The screencast should be well structured. There will be a beginning, a middle, and an end (brief introduction,
the main content, and a brief conclusion). It should flow well with each discussion point following on from
previous points. The text content on the screen should complement the voice-over – the reader cannot read
more than is possible in the duration of a slide, for example. There are exceptions to this: the slide may contain
a table of results, but the student is just highlighting particular values.
Key assessment points:
• Structure
• Overall narrative
• Clarity of speech, appropriate pace
• Entertainment
Failing: 00 – 20 – 39
The length guidelines have been ignored (outside
the range 6 – 10 minutes). There is no obvious
structure to the presentation.
Poor: 40 – 45 – 49
Deviation from the length guidelines is minor (out-
side the range 6.5 – 9.5 minutes). There is some
structure – it has a beginning, a middle and an
end, but less structure within these parts.
Below Expectations: 50 – 55 – 59
Deviation from the length guidelines is minor (out-
side the range 6.5 – 9.5 minutes). There is an
overall narrative but the flow is sometimes a bit
haphazard. Pace may be too fast or too slow.
Expected: 60 – 65 – 69
The length is within the guidelines (7 – 9 minutes).
There is a clear structure with introduction and
conclusions. The viewer is taken clearly through
the narrative. Pace is good.
Above Expectations: 70 – 75 – 79
The length is within the guidelines (7 – 9 minutes).
The structure and flow is chosen to support the
overall narrative very well. The viewer can easily
follow the narrative and is kept interested.
Excellent: 80 – 85 – 89
In addition, the structure and flow is ideally paced
to deliver a lot of information in a very clear way.
The viewer is kept interested and entertained.
Outstanding: 90 – 95 – 100
In addition, the viewer is sad to have reached the
end of the screencast.
26 January 2025 Page 13 of 17
5 ACHIEVEMENTS Third Year Project Assessment
5 Achievements
The Achievement mark is based on the intellectual effort that has been put into the project work itself (not
the report and the screencast). For instance, a student may have put great effort into their work and produced
something that is complex and/or novel, but they may not necessarily be able to express themselves effectively
in the report and screencast.
26 January 2025 Page 14 of 17
5 ACHIEVEMENTS Third Year Project Assessment
5.1 Complexity (33%)
This assesses the difficulty of the work. For example, does the work basically consist of simple web pages or
does it involve the development of original algorithms to solve a difficult problem?
The score given in the Complexity assessment is independent of the Scale assessment – the work might get a
low Complexity score for the development of simple html pages, but if many such web pages are created to
build a large website, then the Scale score can be higher.
Key assessment points:
• Difficulty level of work
• Use of existing ideas
• Originality
Failing: 00 – 20 – 39
The project only relies on material from the Com-
puting A-level, or similar.
Poor: 40 – 45 – 49
The project relies only on material taught in the
first two years of the degree programme.
Below Expectations: 50 – 55 – 59
The project builds on material similar to what is
taught in a third year unit.
Expected: 60 – 65 – 69
The project brings together ideas from several
areas, or delves fairly deeply into one technical
area.
Above Expectations: 70 – 75 – 79
The project solves a significant problem or com-
bines ideas from several areas in an interesting way.
The project makes some use of material from the
scientific literature.
Excellent: 80 – 85 – 89
Additionally the project builds on material from
the scientific literature.
Outstanding: 90 – 95 – 100
Additionally, the project solves a long-standing
hard problem or combines ideas from several areas
in an original way.
26 January 2025 Page 15 of 17
5 ACHIEVEMENTS Third Year Project Assessment
5.2 Scale (33%)
The Scale criteria assesses the amount of work that has gone into the project work itself. Could a good student
have done this work in few weeks, or has an obviously large amount of time and effort gone into the project (in
reading, thinking, experimenting, designing, developing, testing, and so on)?
The score given in the Complexity assessment is independent of the Scale assessment – the work might get a
low Complexity score for the development of simple html pages, but if many such web pages are created to
build a large website, then the Scale score can be higher.
Key assessment points:
• Amount of work
• Difficulties overcome
• Acquiring of knowledge
• Breadth of coverage (e.g. in experiments, development or testing)
Failing: 00 – 20 – 39
The amount work performed was minimal.
Poor: 40 – 45 – 49
It can be seen that something has been produced,
but the time expended was minimal. For example,
software may have been created that could have
come from modified snippets of code on the inter-
net.
Below Expectations: 50 – 55 – 59
The output of the project took a reasonable
amount of time to produce, but there is not much
evidence that effort was put into overcoming any
difficulties or trying out different methods.
Expected: 60 – 65 – 69
The project took a good amount of time to achieve
(including any learning, research, implementation
and/or analysis and creativity). It can be seen
that there various difficulties have been analysed
and overcome.
Above Expectations: 70 – 75 – 79
A considerable effort has been put into the pro-
ject. Difficult problems have been overcome and
the solutions have been demonstrated in some way
so that they can be repeated.
Excellent: 80 – 85 – 89
In addition, there has been some original thought.
The ideas behind the project are not just a repeat
of some existing work – there has been a good
effort to analyse and build upon other works. The
outputs clearly show the amount of work involved
and they are complete and polished.
Outstanding: 90 – 95 – 100
In addition, there is evidence that ownership has
been taken of the problems. More reading has
been performed in and around the topic so that
a full understanding has been developed of where
the work sits. It is obvious that something much
greater could be delivered given more time.
26 January 2025 Page 16 of 17
5 ACHIEVEMENTS Third Year Project Assessment
5.3 Achievement (34%)
The report will have described the aims of the project and discussed if, and how well, the aims were met. The
stated aims should be ones that would take time and effort to achieve.
This criteria assesses how well the aims were met. It combines how difficult the stated aims were and how much
has been achieved trying to meet those aims. Simple aims that were easily met receive a relatively low score.
Difficult aims that were not met, but a lot was achieved trying to meet them, may score relatively highly. Very
difficult aims that were met will score even higher.
If some of the aims stated at the start of the project were not addressed, it may be tempting to completely
ignore those aims in the report and screencast. This is valid, although it should be noted that it may mean
that the remaining aims are not substantial enough.
Key assessment points:
• Achievements
• Difficulty of achievements
Failing: 00 – 20 – 39
The project fails to meet most of the original aims.
Poor: 40 – 45 – 49
The project delivers some of the set aims.
Below Expectations: 50 – 55 – 59
The project meets most of the set aims, or there
is a compulsive reason why it did not.
Expected: 60 – 65 – 69
For all the the set aims the project either met them
or there is a well-documented compulsive reason
why it did not.
Above Expectations: 70 – 75 – 79
In addition, the given objectives were challenging.
Excellent: 80 – 85 – 89
In addition, the presented solution is convincing
and based on suitable principles from the literat-
ure.
Outstanding: 90 – 95 – 100
In addition, as far as developed, the provided solu-
tion is hard to improve upon.
26 January 2025 Page 17 of 17